h1. Hierarchy -- Use PostgreSQL @LTREE@ columns in ActiveRecord

| *Author* | Tim Morgan |
| *Version* | 1.0.5 (Nov 27, 2010) |
| *License* | Released under the MIT license. |

h2. About

The @LTREE@ column type is a PostgreSQL-specific type (installation script is
available in the @contrib@ directory in your PostgreSQL installation) for
representing hierarchies. It is more efficient than the typical way of
accomplishing hierarchal structures in SQL, the @parent_id@ column (or similar).

This gem lets you use an @LTREE@-utilizing hierarchy in ActiveRecord. Including
this gem in your project gets you a) monkey-patches* to Arel to support @LTREE@
columns, and b) a module you can include in your models, providing an abundance
of methods to help you navigate and manipulate the hierarchy.

*Though I don't know for sure, I suspect when Arel 2.0 is supported in Rails, I
will be able to remove this monkey-patching ugliness.

h2. Installation

*Important Note:* This gem requires Ruby 1.9 and Rails 3.0.

Firstly, add the gem to your Rails project's @Gemfile@:

<pre><code>
gem 'hierarchy'
</code></pre>

Then, run the generator to install the migration:

<pre><code>
rails generate hierarchy
</code></pre>

Note that *this migration must precede any tables using @LTREEs@*, so reorder
the migration if you have to.

h2. Usage

Because this gem was hastily extracted from a personal project, it's a little
constraining in how it can be used. (Sorry.) Currently the gem requires that
your table schema have a column named @path@ of type @LTREE@, defined as in the
example below:

<pre><code>
path LTREE NOT NULL DEFAULT ''
</code></pre>

Once you've got that column in your model, feel free to include the @Hierarchy@
module:

<pre><code>
class Person < ActiveRecord::Base
  include Hierarchy
end
</code></pre>

You can now define hierarchy by setting a model's @parent@, like so:

<pre><code>
person.parent = mother #=> Sets the `path` column appropriately
</code></pre>

You also have access to a wealth of ways to traverse the hierarchy:

<pre><code>
person.children.where(gender: :male)
person.top_level?
Person.treeified #=> returns a traversable tree of all people
</code></pre>

For more information on what you can do, see the {Hierarchy} module
documentation.

h2. Development

If you wish to develop for Hierarchy, the first thing you will want to do is get
specs up and running. This requires a call to @bundle install@ (obviously) and
setting up your test database.

As you can see in the @spec/spec_helper.rb@ file, the specs require that a
PostgreSQL database named @hierarchy_test@ exist and be owned by a
@hierarchy_tester@ user. Unfortunately I haven't written a way to configure this
(though patches are welcome). So, the following commands should suffice to get
you started:

<pre><code>
createuser hierarchy_tester # answer "no" to all prompts
createdb -O hierarchy_tester hierarchy_test
</code></pre>

With those steps done you should be able to run @rake spec@ and see the Glorious
Green.
